Adding feature to integrate Teradata profiler with Lakebridge (#2343)
databrickslabs/remorph: docs/lakebridge/docs/assessment/profiler/teradata.mdx

---
sidebar_position: 2
title: Teradata Profiler Details
---
import Admonition from '@theme/Admonition';

# Teradata Profiler Details

- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
- [Configure Connection to Teradata](#configure-connection-to-teradata)
- [Run the Profiler](#run-the-profiler)
- [PDCR Optional Mode](#pdcr-optional-mode)
- [International Character Support](#international-character-support)

## Prerequisites

### 1. Teradata connectivity and driver

> - Network access to the Teradata system.
> - Python package dependency used by Lakebridge: `teradatasqlalchemy` (installed automatically with Lakebridge).
> - Access to the Teradata database with appropriate permissions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Network access to the Teradata system.
- No driver install required for the teradata profiler
```

Author: Done

- `PDCRINFO.DBQlogTbl_Hst`
- `PDCRINFO.DBQLSummaryTbl_Hst`
- `PDCRINFO.UserInfo`

<Admonition type="info" title="PDCR is optional">
If PDCR is not enabled in the customer environment, Lakebridge can run in fallback mode using core DBQL tables only. See [PDCR Optional Mode](#pdcr-optional-mode).
</Admonition>

## Configure Connection to Teradata

```console
databricks labs lakebridge configure-database-profiler

Select the source technology
[0] bigquery
[1] legacy_synapse
[2] mssql
[3] oracle
[4] snowflake
[5] synapse
[6] teradata
Enter a number between 0 and 6: 6

(local | env)
local means values are read as plain text
env means values are read from environment variables fall back to plain text if not variable is not found

Enter secret vault type (local | env)
[0] env
[1] local
Enter a number between 0 and 1: 1
Enter the Teradata server or host details: td-host.example.com
Enter the user details: dbc_user
Enter the password details:
Enter the default database name (default: DBC):
```

The generated credential block (written to `~/.databricks/labs/lakebridge/.credentials.yml`) includes:

- `teradata.host`
- `teradata.user`
- `teradata.password`
- `teradata.database`

> - Optional override: `teradata.profiler.use_pdcr`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

<Admonition type="tip" title="Storing the password securely">
Choose `env` as the secret vault type to avoid storing the password in plain text. In `env` mode the stored value is the name of an environment variable that Lakebridge resolves at runtime (falling back to plain text if the variable is not set).

> </Admonition>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Run the Profiler

Optionally verify connectivity first:

```console
databricks labs lakebridge test-profiler-connection --source-tech teradata
```

Then run the extraction:

```console
databricks labs lakebridge execute-database-profiler --source-tech teradata
```

This executes the extraction steps defined in the Teradata pipeline configuration and produces a local DuckDB extract at:

```
~/.databricks/labs/lakebridge_profilers/teradata_assessment/profiler_extract.db

> ```

Reviewer: outdated. now users pass `--output-folder` and output file is now named `profiler_extract_<platform>_<version>_<YYYYMMDD>.db`

Author: Done

## PDCR Optional Mode

Default behavior (when `teradata.profiler.use_pdcr` is omitted or `true`):

- Lakebridge first checks PDCR accessibility with a lightweight preflight probe.
- If accessible, Lakebridge extracts PDCR aggregated datasets:
  - `td_pdcr_info_agg_extract`
  - `td_pdcr_sp_exe_info_agg_extract`
- If PDCR is unavailable, Lakebridge automatically falls back to DBQL core extraction:
  - `td_dbql_core_info_extract`

When `teradata.profiler.use_pdcr = false`:

- Lakebridge disables the PDCR extraction steps.
- Lakebridge enables DBQL fallback extraction:
  - `td_dbql_core_info_extract`

### Fallback data limitations

Without PDCR, available data is typically narrower (for example, recent days from DBQL instead of long historical aggregates).
This can reduce long-horizon trend analysis and may underrepresent short-query aggregate metrics.

## International Character Support

Lakebridge supports multilingual query text and metadata (for example Japanese, Korean, and Thai text) in Teradata profiler extracts.

- Teradata extraction runs over UTF-8-capable driver paths.
- During extraction, Lakebridge normalizes text values to UTF-8-safe strings.

> - Invalid byte sequences are safely replaced instead of failing the profiler run.

Reviewer: we need to redact any queries when we run the profiler queries `[REDACTED]`

Author: Done

- [Configure Connection to Teradata](#configure-connection-to-teradata)
- [Run the Profiler](#run-the-profiler)
- [PDCR Optional Mode](#pdcr-optional-mode)
- [SQL Text Redaction](#sql-text-redaction)
- [International Character Support](#international-character-support)

## Prerequisites

### 1. Teradata connectivity and driver

- Network access to the Teradata system.

> - No driver install required for the Teradata profiler — the `teradatasql` driver ships with Lakebridge.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- No driver install required for the Teradata profiler.
```
Implementation details and should not be part of customer docs

Author: done
